# CST8333 Final Project - Python Employee Database
This was my final project in my "Programming Language Research Project" course at Algonquin College. The course allowed me to choose a programming language, research the language, and submit a project that encompasses a variety of elements such as database connectivity and file input/output. I chose Python as the language I wanted to research and my project was centered around an employee database. I was required to comment any websites/resources that I used to aid my project, which you'll notice in all the files. I also included a unit testing file (EmployeeDatabaseTest). The program was written in Python using Python 3.4. I wrote the code in Eclipse using the PyDev plugin. Database connectivity was used with Oracle's MySQL Connector/Python database driver.

EmployeeDatabase.py is the main file to launch the program. The program presents the user with a menu where they can add, modify, or delete an employee or display all employees in the database. Note the program does not save any data. Employees must have a first and last name and date of birth which is all entered by the user. A starting date is automatically generated using the "date" module, while a five-digit employee ID is randomly generated. Employees can be classified as either an "executive" or "programmer" - executives make a yearly salary while programmers are paid hourly. There is also a tax added depending on hours worked.

The classes Employee, Executive, and Programmer assist with the creation of employees. The Employee class just holds most of the data and calculates the weekly tax rate. The Executive and Programmer classes both inherit from the Employee class and add some new functions. Each employee added is also added the MySQL database which is also displayed when the user wants to display all users. Upon exiting the program that saves all the employees and their data to a TXT file. Exception handling and input validation is used throughout the program. Employees are stored in a list and that list is iterated through to display all employees. Users can also edit an employee's last name or pay data.

This program was my first real introduction to Python. I liked the language and this project made me want to try other things with the language that I'd like to do in the near future.
